# HumanUEGs
The ubiquitously expressed genes in human (Housekeeping Genes) (submitted for review)
<BR>This repository contains informations could be found in BioRxiv: Comprehensive Analysis of Ubiquitously Expressed Genes in Human, From a Data-Driven Perspective

The ubiquitously expressed genes (UEGs) are expressed in almost all living cells of a multicellular organism and play an essential role in maintaining cellular processes and cell survival. As well as SEGs are strictly expressed in few tissue or cell types and usually have specific biological functions, and they are generally believed more likely associated with human diseases or to be a druggable target. In this work, we attempt to systematically characterize the complete set and the global expression patterns of UEGs in the human genome. Since the definition of the SEGs is deeply coupled to specific contexts and the definition of tissue/cell types, we will only treat SEGs as a whole. 

Inspired by the concept of pan-genome and core-genome in bacterial field, we hereby proposed a novel analysis framework to systematically characterize human UEGs, which is the core component of human transcriptomes. Our framework bypasses the costly tissue/cell type stratification process and directly assesses the global expression pattern and expression specificity for each gene through the consideration of diverse transcriptomes. Unlike previous studies that only focus on produce a list of UEGs, our study not only focuses on the identification of the UEGs but also interested in determining their global expression patterns. 

Our results suggest that about half (12,234; 49.01%) of the human genes are expressed in at least 80% of human transcriptomes and the median size of the human transcriptome is 16,342 (65.44%). This suggests that the average difference in gene content between human transcriptomes is only 16.43%. Through gene clustering, we identified a set of UEGs, named LoVarUEGs, that have stable expression across human transcriptomes and can be used as internal reference genes for expression measurement. Our validation results in an separate dataset, Dee2, show a good agreement, supporting the generalizability of our observations. 

To demonstrate the usefulness of our UEGs resource, we evaluated the global expression patterns of 16 previously predicted disallowed genes in islet beta cells and found that 7 of them have a more varied expression pattern than classic disallowed genes. It implies that the repression of these genes may not unique to islet beta cells, at least in term of expression level. 

We believed our study provide a useful framework and resource for further functional genomics study. 
